Program: Free Thinking
Title: William Kentridge, William Boyd, Photography
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b069y6v1
Last Broadcast Date: Tue 15 Sep 2015
South African artist William Kentridge discusses making animated films, drawings and directing the opera Lulu. William Boyd's latest novel Sweet Caress traces the life and work of a photographer. Philip Dodd talks to him about viewing 20th century history and news events through the lens of a fictional photo journalist. New Generation Thinker Zoe Norridge, documentary photographer Anna Fox and Eamonn McCabe - portrait photographer and former picture editor of the Guardian newspaper - discuss the impact of digital photography on the way we see the world. Sweet Caress by William Boyd is out now. William Kentridge has an exhibition at the Marian Goodman gallery in London 11th Sept - 24 Oct 2015 His production of Alban Berg's Lulu opens at the Metropolitan Opera in New York in November 2015 and then comes to the ENO in 2016. BBC Radio 3 will be broadcasting it live from the Met in February 2016. There are live UK cinema screenings on November 21st The imperial War Museum opens its exhibition called Lee Miller: A Woman's War on October 15th. Wim Wenders' documentary about Sebastian Salgado - The Salt of the Earth is released on DVD this week. Anna Fox organised the 2014 symposium Fast Forward: Women in Photography at Tate Modern and is involved in a two day conference this November 6th and 7th looking at the evolution of the history of women in photography, from early commercial practices, to the impact of World War II on women and their work. She is Professor of Photography at the University for the Creative Arts at Farnham, Surrey. Anton Corbijn's film Life about James Dean - starring Robert Pattinson as the photographer Dennis Stock - opens at cinemas around the UK on Friday September 25th certificate 15. Don McCullin has an exhibition of photographs at Hamiltons Gallery, London running until October 3rd and a career survey at Hauser & Wirth Somerset opening on 15 November entitled Conflict - People - Landscape. Show less