Program: Outlook
Title: 29/12/2010
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p00cm17x
Last Broadcast Date: Thu 30 Dec 2010
MATTHEW'S MEMORABLE MOMENTS OF 2010 SARAH SHOURD In July 2009, Sarah Shourd and her two friends, Shane Bauer and Josh Fattal, were detained by Iranian border guards whilst hiking along Iraq's mountainous border with Iran. They were all held in Evin prison and Sarah was only released fourteen months later. She tells Matthew Bannister about conditions in the prison and about the happy moment during their captivity when Shane proposed to her. LI CUNXIN Li Cunxin was born into a poor peasant family in Chairman Mao's communist China, but as a child he was chosen by Madame Mao's Beijing Dance Academy and went on to become an international ballet star. At the age of eighteen he was allowed to travel to the United States and while he was there he met and married a young American girl. As he tells Matthew Bannister, by marrying her he ended up at the centre of a siege at the Chinese consulate in Houston. DR HAWA ABDI AND HER DAUGHTER DR AMINA ADAN For the past few years on Outlook we've followed the courageous work of Dr Hawa Abdi. She's the Somali physician who runs a clinic for pregnant women and malnourished children just outside Mogadishu. Dr Abdi tells Matthew how she survived an attack on her clinic by an Islamist militia group in May 2010, and her daughter Dr Amina Adan explains why she sees her mother as a hero. PARENTS OF LINDA NORGROVE In October 2010 British aid worker Linda Norgrove was killed when American soldiers tried to rescue her from kidnappers in Afghanistan. At first it was thought she'd died when one of her kidnappers detonated a suicide vest, but an official investigation later revealed that she was killed by a grenade thrown by one of her rescuers. Linda's parents John and Lorna tell Matthew about the memories of Linda they will always cherish. CURTIS D ROBINSON Curtis D Robinson was born into a poor African American family in Alabama. He tells Matthew Bannister how he overcame racism to go from pot-washer to multi-millionaire property developer and why he is determined to help the poorest African American men get screening and treatment for prostate cancer. Show less