Program: Outlook
Title: Raising a Child Genius
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p0181q3w
Last Broadcast Date: Tue 14 May 2013
When Jacob was diagnosed with autism aged two, his mother Kristine Barnett was told he may never even be able to tie his own shoe laces. But she recognised his special gifts and decided to go against the experts to nurture his growing interest in maths and physics. He is now 14 and is studying for a Masters degree in quantum physics. Kristine has written a book called The Spark, about raising a child genius. Traditionally music was always an important part of Afghan culture, but the impact of the Taliban and conflict in the region meant that Afghanistan's musical heritage became a distant memory. One man set out to reverse this trend - Dr Ahmad Sarmast. The son of a renowned Afghan composer and conductor he had fled the civil war and moved to Australia. Whilst he worked on gaining a PhD in music, he also initiated the Revival of Afghan Music (ROAM) Project, which recommended the creation of a national school of music. In June 2010 his vision became a reality. A recent fight between western climbers and Sherpas on Mount Everest highlighted the potential for tension between people from very different cultures operating on the world's highest mountain. Mount Everest was first conquered by Edmund Hillary and the Sherpa, Tenzing Norgay in 1953. Ever since, wealthy westerners have relied heavily on local Nepalese people to carry, cook and guide them. In return, Sherpas have made good money from well-funded expeditions, which has allowed them to pursue their dreams outside Nepal. Ang Jangbu Sherpa used to be a professional mountain guide, but is now an airline pilot living in Germany. Plus a report from a graveyard in Tblisi - the capital of the former Soviet Republic of Georgia, where it is common for Georgians to honour their deceased relatives by taking food and wine to cemeteries, to feast beside the grave. (Picture: Child genius Jacob Barnett in front of some of his calculations) Show less