Program: Outlook
Title: Wrongfully Imprisoned for 20 Years
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p02d8nlq
Last Broadcast Date: Wed 10 Dec 2014
Franky Carrillo was just 16 years old when he was convicted of murdering a man in a drive by shooting in Los Angeles. Six eye witnesses identified him as the gunman and in 1992 he was sentenced to life in prison. Franky always denied that he was killer, insisting that at the time of the murder he was at home several miles away. Eventually a lawyer called Ellen Eggers took up his case and they set out to prove his innocence. After serving 20 years Franky was finally cleared of the crime and released. Ellen and Franky tell Matthew Bannister their story. Wet is an 85-years-old artist who is one of the tribal elders of the Palikur tribe. The tribe lives in the Brazilian Amazon region and there are estimated to be fewer than two thousand members. Wet makes wooden sculptures inspired by his tribe's beliefs about the stars and their constellations. He is concerned that the younger generation aren't interested in learning about the tribe's traditions and he fears that the language and culture of his people could die out within 20 years. Our reporter Gibby Zobel travelled to Wet's remote Amazonian village, in the northern state of Amapa, to see the artist at work. Rich Peppiatt is a former journalist who made the news himself in 2011 when he publicly resigned in protest at some of the things he says he was asked to do at one of Britain's tabloid newspapers. Although Rich never broke the law, he has now made a film highlighting poor journalistic practices which he says are endemic in the industry. Babar Afzal used to be a city boy living and working in New Delhi as an international business consultant. His work led him to travel the world but he gave it all up in 2012 to return to support the local shepherds in his homeland of Jammu and Kashmir, where around 25,000 Pashmina goats had died following a particularly harsh winter. (Photo: Franky Carillo and his lawyer Elen Eggers) Show less