Program: Outlook
Title: Selfie stick, Overcoming Disability, Water Man
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p02nzhcz
Last Broadcast Date: Sun 19 Apr 2015
Jia Haixia is blind and Jia Wenqi has no arms but together they have overcome their disabilities by becoming each other's eyes and hands. Between them they've planted 10,000 trees in ten years - transforming a barren landscape near their village in northern China. Chilean Miguel Angel Pellao has sung his way out of poverty. He was born in Santa Barbara, home to many of Chile's indigenous people - the Pehuenches - and where many just about get by through farming and forestry. But Miguel had other ideas. Now known as El Tenor Pehuenche, he's toured all over Europe, and has recently been performing in the south of Chile. 30 years ago, Rajendra Singh gave up his government job in Jaipur, and moved to a village without water - the rivers had dried up, and most people had moved away. So he made it his mission to get the water back - and he's done it, not by some fancy modern method, but by reviving a tradition that had fallen out of use. He's just been awarded the respected Stockholm Water Prize. We've had a bit of a farming theme on Outlook over the past week or so - with farmers from around the world giving us an insight into their working lives. We're making our final visit today - to the farm of Trey Lewis, who keeps bison, or buffalo, in Maryland in the eastern United States. Jane O'Brien braved the snow and ice to see him. Love it or loathe it, the selfie stick is everywhere. You might think it's a recent invention but in fact a Japanese camera engineer called Hiroshi Ueda developed an early version of the selfie stick - called the extender - more than 30 years ago. The idea came to him after a holiday that went wrong. Picture: Hiroshi Ueda's picture taken with an early version of the selfie stick; Jia Haixi and Jia Wenqi climb a tree together; Rajendra Singh. Jia Haixi and Jia Wenqi Picture credit: CN News Show less