Program: Outlook
Title: My Five-year Campaign for Missing Husband
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p02q9qlq
Last Broadcast Date: Thu 7 May 2015
Since 2006, at least 14 media workers have been killed in Sri Lanka. Other journalists have been detained or have left the country after receiving death threats. Prageeth Eknaligoda was a well-known political journalist and cartoonist. He went missing on January 24, 2010, just days before the presidential election. The week before, he had written about his support of the main opposition candidate. Five years on, Prageeth's wife Sandya is still looking for answers about what happened to him. Lloyd Everitt is a young British actor who recently played one of Shakespeare's greatest roles - Othello. Unlike the other members of the cast, Lloyd found it a real challenge to learn his lines. He has dyslexia which makes reading and remembering words a struggle. But Lloyd came up with an unusual solution to the problem. Zero Freitas bought his first record around fifty years ago. It was a collection of songs by the Brazilian superstar, Roberto Carlos. But it wouldn't be his last. Since then Zero has amassed what's thought to be the world's largest privately owned vinyl record collection - with over five million copies. As people around the world moved on to CDs and now Mp3s, Zero bought up their unwanted vinyl - sometimes in collections of hundreds of thousands. He pays for his records with money he earned from running his family's transport business in the Brazilian city of Sao Paulo. Outlook's Gibby Zobel went to visit Zero's warehouse. 36 year old Vanessa Traill is celibate but decided she wanted her eggs to be put to good use. So she went to the Glasgow Centre for Reproductive Medicine and donated 45 of them to help couples who couldn't otherwise have children. And she's now found out that through the process of In Vitro Fertilisation, or IVF, three childless women have successfully given birth. Loudon Wainwright III is a Grammy Award-winning American singer- songwriter. For him, music is a family affair. He is the father of musicians Rufus Wainwright and Martha Wainwright and the former husband of the late folk singer Kate McGarrigle. Loudon's renowned for his highly personal, confessional style of song-writing. The BBC's John Wilson talked to him while he was in London last month to collect a lifetime achievement award. Picture: Sandya Eknaligoda in front of photo of her husband Credit: Getty Images Show less