Program: Outlook
Title: Greek Hero who Saved Migrants from Sea
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p02r8wjg
Last Broadcast Date: Thu 21 May 2015
Antonis Deligiorgis has been given an award for bravery after he saved 20 migrants from drowning off the coast of the island of Rhodes. The Greek Army sergeant went back into the sea repeatedly after the boat which was carrying 93 people hit rocks and began to capsize. A photograph of him rescuing a young Eritrean woman was shown around the world. Antonis told Matthew Bannister when he first realised something was wrong. Liz Carr is a British TV actress and comedian who uses a wheelchair. She is well known to TV audiences in the UK for playing a forensic technician in the crime series Silent Witness. This year, she's also celebrating 10 years of performing comedy with the disabled theatre company Abnormally Funny People. When she was only seven years old Liz was diagnosed with a rare muscle wasting condition. We hear from ordinary Yemenis living through the conflict that has devastated their country. Around 300-thousand people have fled their homes since March, and almost a thousand have been killed. Today we go to Aden to hear from Mayada, a healthcare worker. Four years after the tsunami hit the north-east coast of Japan killing thousands of people, one man is still searching for his wife's remains. He has even learned to dive to help with his quest. Yuko Takamatsu worked for a bank and was in her office when the wave struck. Her husband Yasuo and the couple's two children survived, while Yuko is presumed to have died. Our reporter Hiromi Tanoue went to visit Yasuo at his home in Onagawa. Twenty-seven-year-old Eugene Awimbo is a shopkeeper from Kenya. But since his teenage years, Eugene has been using his spare cash to fund his hobby - rocket building. Eugene has built rockets that are several metres tall and he is aiming to get one into orbit. Eugene joined us from our Nairobi studio. (Picture: Antonis Deligiorgis. Credit: Argiris Mantikos-Eurokinissi/AP) Show less