Program: Outlook
Title: Ebola, Iraq Aide, Rohingya Migrant
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p02s36ng
Last Broadcast Date: Sun 31 May 2015
On Monday's Outlook we told the stories of some of those whose lives had been affected by Ebola. On Outlook Weekend we hear two of these, from Sierra Leonne: Douda Mohammed Fulla is a 24 year old orphan from Sierra Leonne. Between July and August last year he lost his father, step-mother, grandmother, brother and sister to Ebola. Kefla Kargbo is the director of childrens' charity Street Child in Sierra Leone. For the past eighteen months he has been travelling to remote rural locations, spreading an Ebola prevention message. The peace campaigner who ended up advising one of America's top generals in Iraq. Emma Sky is a British civilian who had 10 years of experience of conflict mediation between Israel and the Palestinians, and volunteered to go to Iraq in 2003 just after Saddam Hussein was deposed. She quickly found herself in charge of governing a whole province of the country. It's estimated that there are currently thousands of migrants stranded in the Andaman Sea. Stories of starvation, dehydration and even killings have been reported by the migrants who have been allowed ashore. Others have simply been sent back to sea by neighbouring countries unwilling to take in any more refugees. 22-year-old Muhammed Kamal Hussaini is one of the Rohingya Muslims from Myanmar who have made it across the sea to Indonesia. He's currently in a refugee camp in the North Aceh region. The baguette is a symbol of French culture and they take its quality very seriously indeed. In Paris, a competition is held every year to find the best baguette - the winner gets the right to supply the French president with baguettes every morning. This year the prize has been won by a baker from Senegal - Djibril Bodian. So what is it that gives his baguette that certain 'je ne sais quoi?' Earlier this year a photo went viral on the internet. It showed a terminally ill woman on a stretcher, accompanied by nurses, in the middle of Holland's famous Rijksmuseum. The woman was there to fulfil her dying wish - to take one final look at her favourite Rembrandt painting. Her visit had been made possible by a Dutch charity called the Ambulance Wish Foundation, whose mission is to help terminally ill patients fulfil their final dreams. Matthew speaks to the founder of the charity, Kees Veldboer. (Image left to right: Douda Mohammed Fulla; Emma Sky (Credit Curt Cashour); Muhammed Kamal Hussain Show less