Program: Outlook
Title: Standing Up to Neo-Nazis
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p02ys331
Last Broadcast Date: Wed 19 Aug 2015
The small American town of Leith, North Dakota, has seen better days - many of the houses have been abandoned and there are only around twenty residents left. So, when new people moved in a couple of years ago, the locals were intrigued. But it turned out the incomers were Neo-Nazis, led by a known white supremacist who wanted to take over the town and turn it into an all-white enclave. The news was particularly disturbing for Leith's only black resident Bobby Harper and his wife, Sherrill. On the streets of India's big cities it's becoming less common to see the red turbans of traditional ear cleaners. The BBC's Suhail Haleem has been out in Delhi meeting the men who, for a small fee, scrape the wax and dirt from their clients' ears with needles and cotton wool. With an average age of 84, a Japanese group called KBG84 are taking their country's music scene by storm. The 33 women in the band have been playing to sell-out crowds and have just got a record deal with their song, 'Come on and Dance, Kohama Island'. Singer Tomi Menaka reveals what it's like to be famous and dance on stage at the age of 92. Five years ago, Caleb Orozco initiated the first challenge to a law in Belize is interpreted as banning homosexual sex. He argued that it goes against international human rights law. As he told Outlook's Viv Jones, he's still waiting for a verdict and has gained unwanted national fame in the meantime. Take classically trained ballerinas, put them on stage with contemporary dancers in leather jackets, add a score that includes pop, salsa, classical, and afrobeat and you've got Balletronic - the new production from Cuban dance company Ballet Revolucion. Outlook's Pooneh Ghoddoosi has been to meet three of the company - ballerina Leydi Marlen Crespo Castillo, modern dancer Lianett Rodriguez Gonzalez and their choreographer Roclan Gonzalez Chavez - at the Edinburgh art festival. (Picture: Sherrill and Bobby Harper. Photo Credit: Anna Bressanin) Show less