Program: Outlook
Title: Outlook Weekend: Pick of the Week
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p030j8bw
Last Broadcast Date: Mon 31 Aug 2015
Laura Ulloa was just eleven years old when she was kidnapped by the Colombian rebel group the FARC. She was held in the jungle for seven months before being released, but remarkably, during that time, she says she began to understand why the FARC took her and even became friends with her captors. She tells Matthew Bannister her remarkable story. Doug Allan likes to get close to wild animals - often in the most inhospitable conditions. He's an award winning wildlife cameraman, known in the business for his expertise in filming underwater and in extreme cold. He has contributed spectacular footage of whales, polar bears and other large mammals to TV series presented by the British naturalist Sir David Attenborough. Now in his mid 60s and still working in the most inhospitable climates, Doug has written a book entitled Freeze Frame that looks back on his life. An extraordinary insight into what it's like to run a hospital in a war-zone. Yemen is under bombardment by a Saudi-led coalition which supports the ousted president, and is trying to stop his opponents, the Houthis, from taking over the country. The Saudis are imposing a blockade, and there are severe shortages of food, fuel and medical supplies. Hospitals are struggling to keep going. Dr Mohammed Hajjar is in charge of one in Saada province, one of the worst affected parts of the country. He explains about the life and death decisions he is having to make. When Kunzang Choden was a child in the 1950s and 60s, there were no schools for girls in Bhutan. So she had to get to India - a journey that took twelve days on foot and horseback, through dense jungles and mountain passes. Several decades later, she turned that experience into a novel, ''The Circle of Karma', about a young village girl who's desperate to get an education. It became Bhutan's first international bestseller. Kunzang speaks to Outlook's Candida Beveridge. Public transport in Kenya is a fast and furious business. Conductors on shared mini buses, or matatus, hurry passengers along by shouting at the tops of their voices, and there's no hanging around. So for disabled passengers who need time to get on and off, the experience is often an unhappy one. But one driver and conductor in Nairobi are trying to improve the experience for the disabled passengers on their route. Reporter Wairimu Gitahi joins them on their route. Picture: Laura Ulloa (Credit: Juan Paez) / Doug Allan (Credit: Doug Allan) Show less