Program: Outlook
Title: Life and Death Decisions in Yemen
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p030362g
Last Broadcast Date: Wed 26 Aug 2015
An extraordinary insight into what it's like to run a hospital in a war-zone. Yemen is under bombardment by a Saudi-led coalition which supports the ousted president, and is trying to stop his opponents, the Houthis, from taking over the country. The Saudis are imposing a blockade, and there are severe shortages of food, fuel and medical supplies. Hospitals are struggling to keep going. Dr Mohammed Hajjar is in charge of one in Saada province, one of the worst affected parts of the country. He explains about the life and death decisions he is having to make. When Kunzang Choden was a child in the 1950s and 60s, there were no schools for girls in Bhutan. So she had to get to India - a journey that took twelve days on foot and horseback, through dense jungles and mountain passes. Several decades later, she turned that experience into a novel, ''The Circle of Karma', about a young village girl who's desperate to get an education. It became Bhutan's first international bestseller. Kunzang speaks to Outlook's Candida Beveridge. Eman Mohamed has chosen a highly unusual career for a Palestinian woman - in fact, she says she is the first Gazan woman to become a photojournalist. Her photos of the conflicts in Gaza have been published in international newspapers and magazines. But there was a lot of resistance to her going into the business. She even had to bargain to get a camera when she was offered her first job. The Bhundu Boys were massive in their homeland Zimbabwe - and across Africa - and were the first Zimbabwean group to make it big in Europe. They flourished after the country's independence in 1980, as before then, traditional African music had been banned from the airwaves. Kim Chakanetsa speaks to the band's former guitarist Rise Kagona at the Edinburgh festival. (Picture: Smoke from an air strike on Sanaa, Yemen. Credit: Mohammed Huwais/AFP/Getty Images) Show less