Program: Outlook
Title: Outlook Weekend: Pick of the Week
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p031ryd7
Last Broadcast Date: Sun 13 Sep 2015
Seventy-nine year old Hilde Schramm is the daughter of Hitler's architect, Albert Speer - something she has struggled with all her life. She became a driving force in the German peace movement and the fledgling Green party. She's also been very involved in efforts to combat racism, and now, in the wake of the conflict in Syria, has opened her home to refugees. Outlook's Abby d'Arcy went to meet her and two of her Syrian lodgers, Nizar and Ahmad. David Williams has been bitten six times by deadly snakes - and survived to tell the tales. The former snake handler now turned research scientist has devoted his life to helping snake bite victims. David works in Papua New Guinea where up to 4000 people are bitten by venomous snakes each year. Many of them die because they can't get to hospital quickly enough - and because anti-venom is expensive and in short supply. Now David has come up with a cheap and effective new anti-venom to tackle the problem. (including extracts from ABC documentary 'Dangerous Liaisons') John Bramblitt is an award-winning American artist whose work has been displayed in more than 30 countries. He is also blind. His dramatic landscapes and portraits have vibrant colours and strong shapes. John took up painting after he lost his sight in his late twenties following a series of epileptic seizures. And it transformed his life. Mihail Vasiliadas, the editor of Apogevmatin - the last Greek language newspaper produced in Istanbul, which, along with his son, he hand delivers to the city's now depleted Greek community. Meseret Yirga's life was changed forever by dance. She seemed destined for a life of poverty in her native Ethiopia until she was spotted by a world famous choreographer and taken to train as a dancer. Now she herself is a choreographer who uses dance to help some of the most vulnerable women in society. Picture (L): Hilde Schramm who has opened her home to refugees. Credit: Abby d'Arcy Picture (R): David Williams milks the venom of a Papua New Guinea Taipan snake. Credit: David Williams Show less