Program: Outlook
Title: Outlook Weekend: Pick of the Week
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p0315q25
Last Broadcast Date: Mon 7 Sep 2015
On 5th August 2010 a mine collapse trapped 33 miners underground for 69 days. The dramatic story of their rescue was beamed round the world, and they became instant celebrities. Now a Hollywood film's been made about their story. So what's life been like for them since then? Reporter Jane Chambers in Chile has spoken to some of the miners, their families and those responsible for their rescue. Thirty year old Diana Kim is a photographer who focuses on the homeless people who live on the streets in her native Hawaii. But three years ago, her project became even more personal, when her own father had a mental health breakdown and ended up living on the streets of Honolulu. In an effort to save him, Diana turned her camera on him. Thelma West grew up in Lagos, with a passion for jewellery. But you can't study gemology, as it's called, in Nigeria, so she came to one of the most famous diamond-trading cities, Antwerp in Belgium, to learn all about them. And she's now a diamond dealer - one of the very few women in the world who work in the business. The "Chemin des Dunes" is not your average school. Nestled in the middle of a migrant camp in Calais and staffed by local volunteers, one of the reasons it was started was to give migrants who decided to stay in France a helping hand with the language. But, as our reporter Tomos Morgan discovered, the timetable was slightly more unusual than anticipated. Matt Dyer is a lawyer from Maine in the United States, and a keen hiker who'd always dreamed of exploring the Torngat National Park in Canada. Two years ago, he got to go there, on a trip with a few others. At night, they put up tents, and rigged up an electric fence to keep out the bears. But it turned out it wasn't a sufficient deterrent. Picture:One of the 33 miners emerging from mine. (Credit: Hugo Infante/AFP/Getty Images) / Polar bear (Credit: Getty Images) Show less