Program: Outlook
Title: Outlook Weekend: Pick of the Week
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p032ft17
Last Broadcast Date: Sun 20 Sep 2015
Reports of a Yeti have been recorded for centuries in the Himalayas. In the villages of central Bhutan locals still tell each other stories of seeing footprints from the mythical beast while out tending their animals on the mountain passes. Reporter Candida Beveridge has been to the village of Chendebji to investigate. Shelby Holmes is only the second person from a travelling showman community in Britain to go to the elite Oxford University. After growing up on the road with the family fairground business, she has spent the last three years studying for an English Literature degree. Now she's taking a break from university and is currently back working on the fairground circuit with her parents in order to save money for her masters degree. The young Chinese pianist Yuja Wang has taken classical music by storm, not only with her dynamic playing but also with her daring outfits on stage. The 28-year-old has recently been appearing at the world's largest classical music festival, the BBC Proms in London. Andrea Kidd went to meet her. Daniel Cabrera is a nine-year-old boy who lives in the city of Cebu in the Philippines. One evening in June, a passer by took a photo of Daniel doing his homework on the pavement by the light of a fast food restaurant. The photo went viral on social media and donations and scholarships began to pour in from people touched by his dedication. For Outlook, reporter Aurora Almendral went to visit Daniel and his mum Christina to find out how their lives have changed. We bring you the turbulent story of two political activists in Syria. They fell in love in prison, married and had children. But living under war and repression eventually tore their marriage apart. They are the subject of a new film by the award-winning British documentary maker Sean McAllister. He's been making films about the Arab world for over twenty years. In 2009 - two years before the start of the uprising in Syria - he went to Damascus to find subjects for a new project. Ugandan vet Peter Apell has dedicated his life to saving chimpanzees. He treks into remote forests - often climbing trees to rescue his patients and then performing surgery on the spot. Peter works for The Jane Goodall Institute - an organisation dedicated to the protection of Great Apes. He tells Matthew Bannister about his extraordinary job. The Norwegian summer camp on the island of Utoya where gunman Anders Behring Breivik murdered 69 people, re-opened this year for the first time since the killings. We hear from Rustam Daudov who was at the camp when Breivik began his attack in July 2011. Although Rustam was only sixteen at the time, he was able to save twenty-three people by hiding them in a cave. He tells Matthew Bannister what happened. [Picture: Norbu from Bhutan, shows where he spotted Yeti (Left); Daniel Cabrera (Right) Credit: Candida Beveridge; Joyce Torrefranco] Show less