Program: Outlook
Title: My Girlfriend Murdered Before My Eyes
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p0338wnb
Last Broadcast Date: Wed 7 Oct 2015
In 1988, American Claudia Brenner and her girlfriend, Rebecca Wight, had planned to hike part of the remote Appalachian trail in Pennsylvania. The weekend started wonderfully, but it turned into an unimaginable nightmare when they encountered a stranger, Stephen Roy Carr, who tried to kill them. Claudia recently went back to the scene of the crime for the first time - she tells Jo Fidgen how she's refused to let Rebecca's killer define the rest of her life. The role of female toilet attendants in Paris, known as 'Dames Pipi' may be under threat. There used to be hundreds of them looking after the city's public conveniences, but over the years they've been steadily replaced by automatic, self-cleaning toilet cubicles. For Outlook, reporter John Laurenson has been to meet one of the "Dames Pipi" to find out more. British psychiatrist Yasir Abbasi tells us how he was inspired by an interview he heard on Outlook two years ago. The interview with was with Abdirahman Ali Awale - a qualified nurse from Mogadishu - also known as Dr Habeeb - who has made it his mission to help the mentally ill in Somalia. Yasir Abbasi and a group of colleagues from the Mersey Care Hospital Trust in the north of England were inspired to offer their services to Dr Habeeb and this month they've started to give seminars to health care workers in Somalia via video link. Chilean Raul Zurita is one of Latin America's most celebrated - and controversial - poets. After Augusto Pinochet came to power in a coup in the early Seventies, Raul used his poetry to highlight the atrocities committed in Chile. Since the return of democracy, his words have been carved on monuments and landmarks around the country. He still writes now, aged 75, and is a visiting professor at Harvard University. Outlook's Jane Chambers went to meet Raul at his home in Santiago. Gertrude Nabukeera or Mama Sylvia lives on the island of Bugala in Lake Victoria and is one of Uganda's only fisherwomen. She started 27 years ago with just a small canoe, which she paddled with an oar. She's now she is in charge of a fleet of 22 boats and a burgeoning empire of fishermen. She tells us how she was able to make that happen. [Picture: Claudia Brenner (Right) and her girlfriend, Rebecca Wight (Left)] Show less