Program: Outlook
Title: Undercover Cop: Fighting Gangsters
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p0338wh7
Last Broadcast Date: Thu 8 Oct 2015
Peter Bleksley was one of Britain's leading undercover police officers. He took part in sting operations to foil multi-million pound drug deals and has put several dangerous gangsters behind bars. But when he discovered that some criminals wanted to kill him, the hunter became the hunted and Peter was forced to go into hiding. Jeppe Garly is a lifelong Viking enthusiast who has recently been appointed a Viking teacher on a Norwegian training course on how to live like a Viking. He teaches his students traditional Viking culture, cooking and crafts such as black smithing. Jeppe told us how he came to embrace all things Viking and what lessons he has in store for his future students. Nigerian-born Adeife Adeniran is an award-winning author now writing her second book - and she is only 15 years old. Adefe went blind as a toddler and moved to Pretoria in South Africa for treatment. She published her first novel aged 12 and is an inspiration to several African presidents, who have insisted on meeting her. Mpho Lakaje went to meet Adeife and her mother. Irish writer Colum McCann was writing a story about a man who was punched in the street with catastrophic consequences, when he himself was punched unconscious in a street in Connecticut. The novella became the central piece in a collection called Thirteen Ways of Looking, which has just been published. Colum explains what happened during the assault last year. When Raoni Japiassu Merisse started working at Brazil's Araguaia National Park there were 12 other rangers. Now there are just three - a job that is seen as increasingly difficult. Not only does Raoni battle against piranhas and snakes, he has also had to work on rebuilding relationships with the local indigenous groups after conflict broke out in 2012. He shared his experiences of being a Park Ranger. (Photo: Peter Bleksley, former undercover police officer) Show less