Program: Outlook
Title: Johannesburg's homeless book seller
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p035w9cs
Last Broadcast Date: Fri 30 Oct 2015
Philani Dladla began selling books as a way to make money whilst he was living rough under Johannesburg's Nelson Mandela Bridge. He is now known as The Pavement Bookworm. He credits books with saving his life and, having taught himself English as a child, he now dedicates his time to helping local children learn to read. The new James Bond film Spectre has all the usual ingredients: high energy chase scenes in cars and aircraft, scantily clad women unable to resist Bond's appeal and a nasty villain bent on causing world destruction. It's the fourth time that actor Daniel Craig has played the smooth super spy and the second time that Sam Mendes has directed a Bond movie. Both share a background in British theatre. Daniel Craig now feels as much at home in the character as the famous names who went before him. Outlook asked him if he finds it easy to stop being James Bond. Every year thousands of Hondurans trek across central America in the hope of a better life in the USA. Many are fleeing poverty, but others are trying to escape violence in their home countries. Nelson grew up in Honduras, near the city of Colon. His family was poor and he was a natural recruit for the local gangs who terrorised the area. Nelson felt the only way to escape was to seek a new life in the US. Before British woman Tara Lal had reached the age of 20, she had already suffered more loss than most. When she was just 13 years old, her mum died of cancer, and four years later, her brother Adam killed himself after suffering years of anxiety and depression. Tara moved from London to Sydney, Australia where she has made a new life for herself. She's written a book about her experiences called "Standing on My Brother's Shoulders" which she hopes will help people to cope with the loss of a loved one. Connie Brennan became a Catholic nun when she was in her early 20s. She knew her vocation was a life long commitment - and she expected to spend her old age being cared for by younger members of her order. But now, in her seventies, the sisterhood has dwindled and there are few new recruits. So the 57 ageing nuns who remain have taken the unusual step of moving into a Jewish care home in New York City. Although nowadays the home is non-denominational, Jewish traditions, including a Rabbi and kosher meals, remain. Sister Connie told Outlook why she first decided to become a nun. Picture: Philani Dladla, The Pavement Bookworm, Johannesburg, South Africa. Credit: Tebogo Malope Show less