Program: Outlook
Title: Not Angry with My Daughter's Killer
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p039yg3b
Last Broadcast Date: Fri 11 Dec 2015
In 2013, Nick Gazzard from Gloucester in the west of England was a happy family man. His youngest daughter Hollie had recently broken up with her boyfriend and come back to live at the family home. The break up between Hollie and her boyfriend had been difficult, but Nick had not been too worried about his seemingly confident and independent daughter, until he received the devastating news that Hollie had been murdered by her ex-boyfriend. Today, Nick is determined that something positive will come from his daughter's murder and has launched a mobile app to protect women from domestic abuse. This year, Afghanistan held its first marathon in the mountainous region of Bamiyan. In a culture where it is rare for women to be involved in sporting competitions, a lone Afghan runner stood out. Zainab Hussaini had to brave intimidation in order to compete. Jolie Drake is an American battle rapper from the southern state of Texas who goes under the name NoShame. Being white and female already makes her unusual in the rap world, but what makes her stand out even more is that Jolie is transgender - she was born in a man's body. One of the most notorious episodes of World War Two was the Burma railway. 'The Line' - as it was called - claimed over 80,000 lives. These events are the subject of a prize-winning novel by one of Australia's leading authors, Richard Flanagan. The Narrow Road to the Deep North took 12 years to write and was inspired by his father's experiences as a prisoner of the Japanese during World War Two. In the movies, the world of private detectives always seems rather murky, with operatives treading a fine line between right and wrong. Two women private detectives - Maureen Nzioko from Nairobi, Kenya, and Akriti Khatri from Delhi in India - discuss the ethics of their job with the BBC's Kim Chakanetsa. (Photo: Hollie (L) and Nick Gazzard (R) Credit: Gazzard family) Show less