Program: Outlook
Title: Outook Moments 2015
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p03b2mlq
Last Broadcast Date: Tue 29 Dec 2015
Matthew Bannister chooses some of the most memorable moments from the last year on Outlook. British diver Don Shirley describes the dramatic moment that an attempt to rescue a body from the bottom of one of the world's deepest submerged caves went tragically wrong. He talks about the realisation that his Australian dive partner Dave Shaw had become entangled with the dead diver and also lost his life. Nineteen-year-old Kenyan student Cynthia Cheroitich describes how she hid from gunmen for two days at Garissa University College, which was attacked earlier this year by militant Islamists from the group Al-Shabaab. Brenda Myers-Powell is an American former sex worker who now coaches vulnerable girls. Fatma Moustafa, and her family fled Syria, hoping to reach Europe. Their overcrowded boat got into difficulties and started to sink. She was able to call her brother, Khalid, in Sweden on her mobile phone. They share the dramatic rescue story. Jia Haixia is blind and his friend Jia Wenqi has no arms.They've overcome their disabilities by becoming each other's eyes and hands and have been planting trees to transform a barren landscape near their village in northern China Mubarak Batambuze is a fifty-year-old fisherman from eastern Uganda. Last year his wife was taken from the shores of Lake Kyoga by a huge crocodile and killed. Mubarak vowed revenge and set out on a mission to hunt down the killer. Sixty-one-year-old Omar Reygadas was one of Chilean miners who were trapped for sixty nine days underground back in 2010. Jane Chambers went back to the mine to meet him. Pakistani teacher Mehnaaz Mehmoud describes the moment that her daughter Sabeen, a passionate supporter of free speech, was murdered in front of her eyes. Jo Milne was born deaf and could hear practically nothing until she was thirty-nine-years-old. Following an implant operation, she talks about hearing for the first time. This year The Proms returned to the BBC World Service and we profile one of the highlights of the season, a performance Korngold's Violin Concerto by Scottish violinist Nicola Benedetti. (Photos: L-R Don Shirley (credit: Andre Shirley); Omar Reygadas; Mubarak Batambuze) Show less