Program: Outlook
Title: I was Attacked by a Leopard
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p03kzw24
Last Broadcast Date: Tue 8 Mar 2016
A few weeks ago there was a news story about a leopard that had got into a school in Bangalore, and was wreaking havoc. A video was put up online - quite a terrifying video - showing a man grappling with the leopard. That man was wildlife officer Sanjay Gubbi, who'd been called in to try and catch the leopard and stop people getting hurt. He tells Jo Fidgen about the moment he came face to face with the animal. In the third part of our series telling the stories of antiquities that have been destroyed or looted in Iraq and Syria, writer Kanishk Tharoor goes back to the start of the Syrian war, to hear about an ancient hill that became a modern battleground. Today we bring you an extract from an interview we did on Outlook last year with a Honduran woman called Berta Caceres. She'd just been awarded the prestigious Goldman Environmental Prize for leading a campaign against plans to dam the Gualcarque river, which her community considers sacred. In the interview Berta told Jo Fidgen that she and her family had received death threats because of the campaign. Last Thursday, gunmen broke into Berta's home and shot her dead. The local police say it was a robbery; Berta's family believes it was an assassination. At her funeral over the weekend, thousands of people turned out to carry her coffin through her home town of Esperanza. British artist Willard Wigan holds a world record for the 'smallest handmade sculpture'. His creations are so tiny that they can fit into the eye of a sewing needle, or onto the head of a pin - and they need to be displayed in specially-made cases containing microscopes. They are being exhibited in his hometown of Wolverhampton. The BBC's Ella-mai Robey went to see Willard and some of his sculptures at his studio in the English Midlands. (Picture: Wildlife Officer Sanjay Gubbi being attacked by a leopard Picture credit:Kashif Masood) Show less