Program: Outlook
Title: One Man's Quest to Find MH370 Plane
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p03q84m6
Last Broadcast Date: Fri 15 Apr 2016
As a huge multi-national effort to find missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 continues, a retired American lawyer is on a one man mission to solve the mystery. Blaine Alan Gibson from Seattle, has spent much of the last year travelling at his own expense to remote beaches in the Indian Ocean looking for debris from the plane. And amazingly, in February, Blaine came across a piece of wreckage in Mozambique that the investigating authorities have concluded is highly likely to be from MH370. Maxine Beneba Clarke believes she is the only writer from an Afro-Caribbean background currently working in Australia. Her parents moved there from the UK in 1976, not long after the country's whites-only immigration policy ended. Maxine was born three years later. The black family lived in an exclusively white suburb and the racism they experienced inspired Maxine's debut collection of short stories, Foreign Soil. Her manuscript was repeatedly rejected by publishers before she got her break by winning an award for unpublished writing. Outlook listener Debbie Taylor has been in touch to tell us about Huong Dang Thi, who she calls 'a remarkably humble yet tenacious global citizen'. Huong - who is now 29 years old - was born in a remote village in north-west Vietnam, and lost her father as a child. She left school at a young age and even ended up homeless on the streets of the capital Hanoi. But with the help of a foundation called KOTO, she has now become an award-winning graduate student in Australia, has been appointed a student ambassador by the state government and works to help other disadvantaged young people. Kimi Werner grew up on the tropical Hawaiian island of Maui and began learning to dive when she was six years old. Now she is a champion freediver - which means she dives without any breathing apparatus. In fact Kimi can hold her breath for over four minutes. She is also a trained chef and mostly dives to catch sea creatures to feed herself and her friends. (Photo and credit: Blaine Alan Gibson) Show less