Program: Outlook
Title: Outlook Weekend: What's in a name?
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p03sqwk5
Last Broadcast Date: Mon 9 May 2016
We're asking ...What's in a name? If you live in the United States and your name is Patel then you're part of a very special group. We meet Geeta and Ravi Patel - sister and brother from California and the children of Indian immigrants. Ravi's parents wanted him to marry another Patel - and Geeta started filming his quest to find the right one. What started out as a family video has now become an award-winning movie called "Meet the Patels". Pablo Escobar was shot dead in his home city of Medellin. At the height of his powers Escobar controlled up to 80% of the world's cocaine trade and was responsible for thousands of deaths and kidnappings during the '80s and early '90s - a period when his cartel terrorised Colombia. Given that legacy - the name Escobar is not an easy one to carry. So Pablo's son is now known as Sebastian Marroquin. He talks about his life as the son of one of the world's most notorious criminals. Iman Elman is a captain in the Somali National Army leading a team of soldiers liberating towns and villages from the control of the Islamist militant group Al Shabaab. The 24-year-old is unusual as women make up only 7 percent of Somalia's military and very few of them go into combat. Her father Elman Ali Ahmed was a peace activist whose motto was "put down the gun, pick up a pen". For Jenna Cook, a street name was one of the few things she had to connect her to her birth parents. As a baby she was found abandoned on a street in the Chinese city of Wuhan in 1992, but then adopted by an American family. When Jenna decided to go back to Wuhan in search of her birth parents - it led to a remarkable discovery. Also, what are expectations like when you're named a statesman with global significance? We meet people from around the world with the name, Mandela. (L) Photo: Sebastian Marroquin. Credit: Sebastian Marroquin. (R) Photo: Jenna Cook. Credit: Chutian Metropolis Daily. Show less