Program: Outlook
Title: Outlook Weekend: My Two Lives
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p03tgk1q
Last Broadcast Date: Mon 16 May 2016
Chief Theresa Kachindamoto oversees 900,000 people in the Dedza District around Lake Malawi. She never expected to be a senior chief, and was happy at her secretarial job when called upon to take up the role. But she's used her position to break up 850 child marriages over the last three years. For Antonio Galdino da Silva Neto from the Brazilian state of Paraiba, violence was a way of life. As a police officer he says he used his gun rather than the rulebook, and eventually he was even convicted of murdering his wife. But after serving his prison sentence he became an award-winning prison warden, who tried to reform the violent system he'd been a part of. In the Thar desert in India lives one of the heaviest flying birds in the world, called the Great Indian Bustard. It's at risk of extinction - it's possible that there are fewer than a hundred left in the wild. In 2003 trainee doctor and keen birdwatcher Pramod Patil first laid eyes on the bird - and it changed his life - he gave up his career in medicine to become a full time conservationist. Celebrated South African dancer Dane Hurst has just given up the job he loves with the oldest, and one of the most famous dance companies in the UK, Rambert, to do something rather unusual. He's bought the company's old dance floor - it's pretty big, 18 metres by 14 metres, he says - and is shipping it out to Port Elizabeth, his home town. Dane tells Jo Fidgen about his "two lives" - at the ballet Rambert and in Port Elizabeth. Ian Anand Forber-Pratt was born in a nursing home for unmarried mothers in Kolkata, India. As a baby, he was adopted and he grew up in the United States. But Ian's now moved back to India, on a mission to revolutionise the country's foster care system. Main image: Chief Theresa Kachindamoto (Credit: Hannah McNeish) and dancer Dane Hurst. Credit: Karl Schoemak Show less