Program: Outlook
Title: The Night My Club was Attacked
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p0552677
Last Broadcast Date: Wed 14 Jun 2017
A year ago, a gunman called Omar Mateen walked into the Pulse gay nightclub in the American city of Orlando, Florida. He killed 49 people and injured dozens more in the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history. He claimed to be a follower of the so called Islamic state, but some reports suggest he was struggling with his own sexual identity. As the community prepared to mark the anniversary, Matthew Bannister spoke to the owner of the club Barbara Poma. She set it up as a safe place for the city's gay community after her brother died of AIDS. Hong Kong IT worker Nicholas Louie Wai-ting has a very unusual hobby - he collects rail way announcements. Over the past twenty years he's built up an online library of around 1500 announcements recorded on Hong Kong's public transport system. As a student Nicholas would ride entire lines with his friends holding a microphone up to the carriage speakers to capture the sounds. Our reporter Anna Bailey has been on a train ride with him. The Colombian city of Medellin has become notorious for its drug gangs. But one crime-fighting duo are determined to put an end to the drugs trade. Narcotics police officer William Marin and his police dog Choko have gained a high reputation for their ability to bust drug traffickers. But their success has also led them to danger, as our reporter Dimitri O'Donnell found out. It is many people's worst nightmare - finding yourself wrongly accused of a crime and unable to clear your name. That's what happened to Nigel Lang from Sheffield in the north of England. And the crime he was accused of - sharing indecent images of children on the internet - couldn't have been more damaging to a man who earned his living helping young people to get off drugs. Nigel's nightmare started in July 2011, the day after he returned from a holiday Photo: Pulse nightclub owner Barbara Poma (L) comforts Orlando City commissioner Patty Sheehan (R) Credit: Getty Images/Pool Show less