Program: The Why Factor
Title: Fitness Apps
Link: https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/w3cswrl5
Last Broadcast Date: Wed 16 Jan 2019
In a world increasingly obsessed with health, the fitness technology market is booming. Whether you’re a serious athlete or just enjoy a casual run or cycle around your local park on a Sunday morning, it seems more and more of us are using fitness devices and activity trackers to record our efforts. But what is the motivation for measuring every aspect of a workout? Can it inspire us to go further, faster or longer? Sharing our performances online allows us to compete virtually with pretty much anyone across the globe – but does it risk turning every training session into a race? Presenter Lowri Morgan talks to the CEO of one of the most popular activity trackers Strava which has more than 36 million members. James Quarles says the main reasons why people use these apps and devices are motivation, competition and simply recording your efforts. But in South Africa in the township of Soweto, the local cycling club is using the data from activity trackers to try to persuade sponsors and professional cycling teams to take on their best riders. They say the statistics help back up their claims about the potential of a rider. While for many these devices and apps are a great help in motivating us to exercise, for some they can increase the risk of exercise addiction. Sport psychologist Dr Josie Perry says athletes can do many more miles training than is necessary simply because they are chasing an online challenge. Lowri meets cyclist Ben Dowman from the UK who says in the past he became somewhat obsessed with trying to top the leader board on his activity tracker – even monitoring the weather to know when the wind direction would be most favourable to beat his rivals’ times. As more of us record every step, pedal stroke and heartbeat, these apps and devices are changing the face of exercise as we compare, share and compete online. Presenter: Lowri Morgan Producer: Paul Grant Editor: Gail Champion (Photo: Female cyclist points to a smart watch on her wrist showing heart rate./Photo credit: ipopba\Getty ) Show less